{
    "title": "SecureTransport Edge",
    "linkTitle": "SecureTransport Edge",
    "weight": "70"
}<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge is the gateway required in the perimeter network (also called demilitarized zone or DMZ) in a typical multilayer security architecture deployment. You can use <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge to implement secure interactions between client systems in a public or other external network and <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Servers in your internal secure network.

<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge serves as a protocol converter in such a deployment. It treats a wide range of file transfer protocols as presentation layer services and each protocol server translates its protocol onto the streaming protocol used to communicate with the Transaction Manager (TM) server on the <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server. The TM Server connects to the protocol servers on the configured <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge servers to establish the connections for the streaming protocol, so no process on a <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge ever makes a connection from the DMZ into the internal secure network. A flexible network zone configuration supports connection to the protocol servers on specific <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge servers for different protocols and file transfers. For more information see <a href="../../c_st_setup/c_st_networkzones" class="MCXref xref">Communication across Transaction Manager, protocol, and proxy servers</a>.

<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge serves all the protocols supported by <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span>. When an external partner client program or file transfer server initiates a connection to one of the protocol servers hosted on <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge, it terminates the inbound connection from the client, collects the client’s credentials, and establishes an authenticated encrypted connection to the TM. <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge sends the credentials to the TM as a service request. The TM attempts to authenticate the account using the configured method and returns the result to <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge. If the account is authenticated, <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge establishes the connection.

For a file transfer, <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge uses the streaming protocol to check the access control rules on <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server to authorize the transfer. <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge converts the network messages between the client protocol and the <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> streaming protocol, decrypting and encrypting the data as needed. The data is *streamed* between the external-facing protocol server and the Transaction Manager, the streaming protocol server, running on the <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server. No transferred file data is stored in the <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge file system in the perimeter network.

When <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server connects to a partner server in the external network to check for files or to transfer a file, it can use the SOCKS5 circuit-level proxy component of <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge to broker the connection through the perimeter network to the external network. Thus, the authentication credentials exist only in the internal secure network and are encrypted until they are presented to the external server. (<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server can also use an HTTP proxy.)

<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge is available as software on Windows and UNIX platforms. You can deploy it with stand-alone or clustered <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Servers. You can deploy two or more <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge systems in support of a <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Server cluster and synchronize configuration changes dynamically. Each <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> Edge stores its configuration in a local embedded database. For more information see <a href="../../c_st_edge_sync#Edge" class="MCXref xref">SecureTransport Edge synchronization</a>.
