{
    "title": "Secure connections",
    "linkTitle": "Secure connections",
    "weight": "70"
}## Secure connections

The following secure connections are available:

-   Connections between the **UI** (Gateway Navigator) and the **server** can be secured, but it is not by default. This is accomplished using SSL/TLS. The choice is made on server side and the client must connect in a secure way if the server is so configured.
-   Connections to **other Axway products** can be SSL\\TLS secured:
    -   Connection to **Passport AM** can be secured using mutual authenticated TLS. The Passport server CA is delivered in Gateway installation. The certificate used to secure these connections is created and stored at Gateway startup (once) by sending to PassPort a CSR with the certificate generated by the product. When the generated certificate expires, it is renewed. Connection is not secured by default.
    -   Connection to **Passport PM** and **PS** can be secured using server side authenticated TLS. Connection is not secured by default.
    -   Connection between **SecureRelay** **MA** and SecureRelay **RA** is always secured
    -   Connection to **Swift infrastructure** can be secured from the Swift API (RA) configuration
-   Connections with **partners** can be secured using SSL\\TLS over the different clear protocols (HTTP, FTP, EDIINT, OFTP, SMTP/POP3, PeSIT etc) or using secure transport protocols such as SFTP. Except SFTP, connections with partners are not secured by default.

Links to documentation set for Axway Gateway <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Release_Number variable">6.17.3</span>:

-   [Installation](#) -- [User](#) -- [Unix Configuration](#) -- [Upgrade](#) -- [Interoperability](#) -- [Security](#), requires login -- [Release Notes](#)
