{
    "title": "Certificate types",
    "linkTitle": "Certificate types",
    "weight": "90"
}<span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> uses the following types of certificates overall:

-   **Local Certificates** – Local certificates are used for server authentication. They are also used to decrypt incoming documents and sign documents and receipts. The <span class="mc-variable suite_variables.SecureTransportName variable">SecureTransport</span> administrator can generate self-issued local certificates, import local certificates signed by a third-party certificate authority, and export certificate public keys and private keys to a file. For example, if you have a certificate signed by a widely-trusted CA such as Verisign, you can import it as a local certificate and use it for the HTTPS SSL key alias so browsers do not require the user to accept a certificate which they cannot validate. You manage server-scoped local certificates from the Setup menu. For more information, see <a href="../t_st_localcertificatesandcsrs#top" class="MCXref xref">Manage local certificates and certificate signing requests</a>.
-   **Trusted Certificate Authority (CA) Certificates** – CA certificates are used for indirect trust of SSL client or server certificates. <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> includes a set of commonly used CA certificates. For <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> to use imported local certificates, the trusted CA certificates must include certificates for all CAs in their certification paths (certificate chains). CA certificates are only server-scoped, and there are no account‑specific CA certificates.
-   **Internal CA** – A CA is the authority that issues, manages, revokes, and renews certificates, and assists people with performing certificate life cycle tasks such as retrieving, renewing, revoking, and so on. CAs are represented by a certificate that contains the name of the issuer and they are used to sign end-user certificates. An internal CA represents the company that you work for or a company that you pay to issue you a certificate.
-   **Login Certificates** – Client authentication certificates are assigned to a specific user and are required for logging in to <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span>. You can use <span class="mc-variable axway_variables.Component_Short_Name variable">SecureTransport</span> to generate X509 login certificates and to import X509 login certificates and SSH keys. You can manage user certificates from the **Accounts** menu. For more information, see<a href="../../../accounts/c_st_usercertificates/t_st_usercertificates#View" class="MCXref xref">Manage login certificates</a><a href="../../../accounts/c_st_usercertificates/t_st_usercertificates" class="MCXref xref">Manage login certificates</a>.
-   **Partner Certificates** – Account-specific public certificates are used for encrypting PGP and AS2 data before sending to the respective account and for verifying the signature of data from the account. Account‑specific certificates can be managed using the **Accounts** menu. For details, see <a href="../../../accounts/c_st_usercertificates/manage-user-partner-certificates" class="MCXref xref">Manage partner certificates</a> .
-   **Private Certificates** – Account-specific certificates used to decrypt incoming documents and sign documents and receipts. The Certificate Manager can generate self-issued private certificates, import private certificates signed by a third-party certificate authority, and export certificate public keys and private keys to a file. You manage account-specific private certificates from the **Accounts** menu. For more information, see <a href="../../../accounts/c_st_usercertificates/manage-user-private-certificates" class="MCXref xref">Manage private certificates</a>.

**Related topics:**

-   <a href="../c_st_certificate_management_page" class="MCXref xref">Certificate Management page</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_repository_encryption_certificate" class="MCXref xref">Repository encryption certificate</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_localcertificatesandcsrs" class="MCXref xref">Manage local certificates and certificate signing requests</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_trustedcas" class="MCXref xref">Manage trusted CAs</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_internalca" class="MCXref xref">Manage the internal CA</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_certificatekeystorepasswordca" class="MCXref xref">Change the certificate keystore password</a>
-   <a href="../r_st_certificatestogenerate" class="MCXref xref">Certificates to generate during initial setup</a>
-   <a href="../t_st_storecertificatesinhsm" class="MCXref xref">Store certificates in a hardware security module</a>
