{
    "title": "Install Transfer CFT",
    "linkTitle": "Install Transfer CFT ",
    "weight": "110"
}## Before you start

If you are installing {{< TransferCFT/componentlongname  >}} as part of a managed file transfer solution, you may want to check the installation order and prerequisites. For more information, please refer to the {{< TransferCFT/centralgovernancename  >}} documentation.

If you want to enable {{< TransferCFT/centralgovernancename  >}} during installation, please check that your license includes {{< TransferCFT/centralgovernancename  >}} and that you have the required information, such as the shared secret, to activate connectivity.

### Installation overview

This table presents a high-level overview of the installation process. By default, the {{< TransferCFT/componentlongname  >}} installation uses a delivered configuration file called `initialize.properties` that provides a series of default values to simplify installation. It is important that you understand the difference between customizing this file before or after running the installer prior to starting the process.

<table>
   <thead>
      <tr>
<th class="TableStyle-SynchTaskMap-HeadE-Column1-Header1">          </th>
<th class="TableStyle-SynchTaskMap-HeadE-Column1-Header1">Step         </th>
<th class="TableStyle-SynchTaskMap-HeadE-Column1-Header1">Details         </th>
<th class="TableStyle-SynchTaskMap-HeadD-Column1-Header1">More info         </th>
      </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>
      <tr>
         <td>1         </td>
         <td>Complete prerequisites         </td>
         <td>Check and fulfill prerequisites such as obtaining a key or system-specific prerequisites.         </td>
         <td><a href="prereqs_overview" class="MCXref xref">Prerequisites</a>         </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
         <td>2         </td>
         <td>Download and unzip         </td>
         <td>Download the installation package from the support site and unzip.         </td>
         <td><a href="#Download" class="MCXref xref">Install Transfer CFT</a>         </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
         <td>3         </td>
         <td>Customize the properties file         </td>
         <td><p>Some installation parameters are mandatory to run Transfer CFT.</p>
<p>You can customize the <code>initialize.properties</code> file before the install, use your own file, or use the unmodified default file, but you cannot start Transfer CFT until the mandatory values are set.</p>         </td>
         <td><a href="new_install_ux" class="MCXref xref">Customize the initialize.properties file</a> <a href="../../windows_install_start_here/before_you_start_win/properties_file_win"></a>         </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
         <td>          </td>
         <td>Run chmod         </td>
         <td>Make the file executable.         </td>
         <td><a href="install_transfer_cft_1#Make" class="MCXref xref">Make the file executable</a>         </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
         <td>4         </td>
         <td>Start the installation         </td>
         <td>Select the installation mode and run using either the default configuration file or your customized file.         </td>
         <td><a href="install_transfer_cft_1" class="MCXref xref">Start the installation</a>         </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
         <td>*         </td>
         <td>Optional customization         </td>
         <td>If you used the default configuration file, you must customize the Transfer CFT settings before starting the product.         </td>
         <td>          </td>
      </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

### Installation restrictions for multi-node

The following multi-node restrictions apply:

-   Bandwidth control is calculated by node.
-   Accounting statistics are generated by node.
-   Nodes are not automatically re-balanced when a host is recovered after a failure.
-   Duplicate file detection is not supported.
-   When using COMS, the SEND/RECV commands do not support STATE=HOLD with WSTATE.
-   You cannot have more than one defined CFTCOM TYPE=FILE object.

When using with {{< TransferCFT/componentshortname  >}} multi node, you cannot manage {{< TransferCFT/componentshortname  >}} updates. You are required to manually update the nodes.

### Installation functions

You can perform the following installation functions:

-   Install
-   Upgrade
-   Update
-   Uninstall

### Check the "noexec" mount option before installing

Before running the InstallBuilder, ensure that the` /tmp `directory and the user's `homedir` do not have the "noexec" option on that mount point. See [Troubleshooting the installation](../troubleshoot_registration) for workarounds.

### Installation configuration file

The {{< TransferCFT/componentlongname  >}} installation is based on a delivered configuration file called `initialize.properties` that provides as series of default values to simplify installation. As described in <a href="new_install_ux" class="MCXref xref">Customize the initialize.properties file</a>, you can make a copy of this file and customize it prior to running the installation procedure.

### Installation modes

The following installation modes use the delivered initialize.properties file as the default configuration file. In graphical or text mode you can install, but not operate, {{< TransferCFT/componentlongname  >}} without customizing certain mandatory values in this file. In silent mode, you must at least define an installation directory prior to running the unattended installation.

Graphical (console) mode

./Transfer\_CFT\_{{< TransferCFT/releasenumber  >}}\_Install\_&lt;OS>\_&lt;BN>.run

Interactive (text) mode

./Transfer\_CFT\_{{< TransferCFT/releasenumber  >}}\_Install\_&lt;OS>\_&lt;BN>.run --mode text

Silent mode (unattended)

./Transfer\_CFT\_{{< TransferCFT/releasenumber  >}}\_Install\_&lt;OS>\_&lt;BN>.run --mode unattended --conf-file initialize.properties

### Create or modify the runtime

You can use the following command to repair the runtime if there was an issue during the installation, or to update values that you have modified in the `initialize.properties` file. From the &lt;installation\_directory>, run the following:

&lt;installation directory> ./initialize filename

### Using symbolic links

To install Transfer CFT using symbolic links, you must use the silent mode, `option '--mode unattended'`, and assign all parameters using only the configuration file (do not use parameters in the command line except the conf-file).

> **Note:**
>
> If an installation that uses symbolic links fails, once you have corrected the silent files, you must delete the Transfer CFT home installation directory, to which the symbolic link points, prior to retrying the installation.

### Get help

To access the installation help:

./Transfer\_CFT\_{{< TransferCFT/releasenumber  >}}\_Install\_&lt;OS>\_&lt;BN>.run --help
