{
    "title": "Tracking Transfer CFT IBM i activities",
    "linkTitle": "Tracking Transfer CFT IBM i activities",
    "weight": "230"
}Transfer CFT activities are tracked using the:

-   Transfer CFT Catalog, which can be queried by CFTUTIL, Copilot, and CFTAPI
-   Transfer CFT LOG, a file designated by the CFTLOG configuration command \[A\]FNAME parameter. This file contains, for example, INIT COMPLETE, SEND TREATED and SERVER SESSION OPENED
-   Message queue echoing the Transfer CFT logging associated with the user designated by NOTIFY in the CFTLOG command:

> -   Specific values: NOTIFY='\_\_\_\_\_\_'  / NOTIFY='OP\_\_\_\_\_\_'
> -   Echo level: OPERMSG= 0 to 255

When monitoring operating incidents, information may be logged in the:

-   Message queue that receives specific incident messages from the interface functions; by default, the function associated with the submitter user (same as NOTIFY='\_\_\_\_\_\_')
-   QSYSOPR message queue that receives messages generated by specific network or work-management commands, and any Transfer CFT file and data management error messages
-   JOBLOG (history message queue and QPJOBLOG spool file), LOGCLPGM parameter in the \*JOBD:

> Logging level (0 to 4) (default = 4)
>
> Severity level (00 to 99) (default = 50)
>
> MSGQ -> spool copy control (\*MSG/\*SECLVL/\*NOLIST)  
> (default = \*NOLIST)

-   Transfer CFT IBM i LOG (QHST) which records job start and end times, status changes for network objects and so on
-   Interactive log file (DSPJOBLOG)

The output spool files (QPRINT) contain:

-   CFTUTIL batch execution reports
-   Messages corresponding to CFT logging, if Transfer CFT is run without a LOG file (without the CFTLOG command)
-   Any traces taken at function level
-   Any network traces
-   Reports from procedures submitted by Transfer CFT (see the transfer variables that can be retrieved as symbolic variables)

CFT ACCNT, accounting, the file designated by the CFTACCNT configuration command \[A\]FNAME parameter, is used to store information on all terminated transfers.

<table data-cellpadding="0" data-cellspacing="0">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td data-valign="top"></td>
<td data-valign="top"><span><strong>Note</strong></span></td>
<td data-mc-autonum="&lt;b&gt;Note&lt;/b&gt;" data-valign="top">The file and data management systems display a system code (40000000 &lt; SC &lt; 5FFFFFFF) if an error is detected on transferred files. An associated error label, when it is not stored in any of the ways described above, can be retrieved from a file containing all CFT file management system error codes and labels:<br />
DSPPFM FILE (CFTPGM/FMDM3ERR).<br />
The hexadecimal value of the error code must be used in the search profile.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

In the line-sharing mode, unlike the exclusive mode, Transfer CFT checks the status of the line without implementing it. If the line is not operational, a message is displayed:

<table data-cellspacing="0">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>From.....:   CFT           06/12/17   15:56:04
<p><br />
CF1LX021   : This line is out of order.<br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

After it has been implemented manually:

<table data-cellspacing="0">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>CF1LX021 line implemented.
<p><br />
From.....:   CFT           06/12/17   15:56:04<br />
CF1LX021   : Now this line is operational.<br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

All messages stored in the log are described in the Transfer CFT 3.9 User's Guide sub-book Messages and Codes. There are a few exceptions when messages are not stored in the log, for example messages that are self-explanatory and OS related.

For more information, refer to the Transfer CFT User Guide.
