{
    "title": "FTP server limitations",
    "linkTitle": "FTP server limitations",
    "weight": "150"
}The following sections describe the FTP server limitations:

-   [FTP APPE command](#ftp_appe)
-   [FTP COMB command](#ftp_comb)
-   [FTP client configuration](#ftp_client)

## <span id="FTP_APPE"></span>FTP APPE command

SecureTransport handles the FTP `APPE` command differently than it is typically handled. Typically, the `APPE` command appends uploaded content to an existing file of the same name. However, when SecureTransport receives this command, it overwrites the server’s copy of the file with the client’s copy.

## <span id="FTP_COMB"></span>FTP COMB command

SecureTransport supports the `COMB` command only for the CuteFTP client. The CuteFTP client separates the file into chunks and uploads them as temporary files on the FTP server. Once CuteFTP uploads all the file chunks are uploaded on the FTP server, it sends the `COMB` command to combine them. By default, file names are generated by the CuteFTP client to match the pattern: `\d.tmp` where `\d` is a decimal number. However, the first file chunk name is the original file name.

<table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
   <col/>
   <col/>
   <col/>
      <tr>
         <td valign="top">         </td>
         <td valign="top"><span><b>Note</b></span>
         </td>
         <td data-mc-autonum="&lt;b&gt;Note&lt;/b&gt;" valign="top">The <code>COMB</code> command cannot be combined with post-transmission actions, repository encryption, or PGP data transformations. <br/>Because <span>SecureTransport</span> releases the FTP command channel after successfully uploading the multiple file chunks, using the <code>COMB</code> command does not provide a guaranteed file transfer. If there is no space left in the upload directory or if errors exist during the process of combining the file chunks, the transfer fails, but no errors are sent to the client.         </td>
      </tr>
</table>

## <span id="FTP_client"></span>FTP client configuration

Some settings for LIST arguments need to be configured manually. The `Resolve Links [-L]` argument must be removed for both clients, but leave the show all file `[-a]` argument.
